# Getting started with Serenity and Cucumber

Serenity BDD is a library that makes it easier to write high quality automated acceptance tests, with powerful reporting and living documentation features. It has strong support for both web testing with Selenium, and API testing using RestAssured.

Serenity strongly encourages good test automation design, and supports several design patterns, including classic Page Objects, the newer Lean Page Objects/ Action Classes approach, and the more sophisticated and flexible Screenplay pattern.

The latest version of Serenity supports Cucumber 6.x.


### The project directory structure
The project has build scripts for both Maven and Gradle, and follows the standard directory structure used in most Serenity projects:
```Gherkin
src
  + main
  + test
    + java                        Test runners and supporting code
    + resources
      + features                  Feature files
     + search                  Feature file subdirectories 
             search_by_keyword.feature
```

Serenity 2.2.13 introduced integration with WebdriverManager to download webdriver binaries.

## The sample scenario
Both variations of the sample project uses the sample Cucumber scenario. In this scenario, Sergey (who likes to search for stuff) is performing a search on the internet:

```Gherkin
Feature: Search by keyword

  Scenario: Jennifer logs in with Jennifer's valid credentials
    Given Jennifer is on the login page
    When Jennifer logs in with valid credentials
    Then she should see their name logged "Jennifer" and the product catalog
```

### The Screenplay implementation
The sample code in the master branch uses the Screenplay pattern. The Screenplay pattern describes tests in terms of actors and the tasks they perform. Tasks are represented as objects performed by an actor, rather than methods. This makes them more flexible and composable, at the cost of being a bit more wordy. Here is an example:

The Screenplay DSL is rich and flexible, and well suited to teams working on large test automation projects with many team members, and who are reasonably comfortable with Java and design patterns. 


## Executing the tests
To run the sample project, you can either just run the `CucumberTestSuite` test runner class, or run either `mvn verify` or `gradle test` from the command line.

By default, the tests will run using Chrome. You can run them in Firefox by overriding the `driver` system property, e.g.
```json
$ mvn clean verify -Ddriver=chrome
```
Or
```json
$ gradle clean test -Pdriver=firefox
```

The test results will be recorded in the `target/site/serenity` directory.

## Generating the reports
Since the Serenity reports contain aggregate information about all of the tests, they are not generated after each individual test (as this would be extremenly inefficient). Rather, The Full Serenity reports are generated by the `serenity-maven-plugin`. You can trigger this by running `mvn serenity:aggregate` from the command line or from your IDE.

They reports are also integrated into the Maven build process: the following code in the `pom.xml` file causes the reports to be generated automatically once all the tests have completed when you run `mvn verify`?

```
             <plugin>
                <groupId>net.serenity-bdd.maven.plugins</groupId>
                <artifactId>serenity-maven-plugin</artifactId>
                <version>${serenity.maven.version}</version>
                <configuration>
                    <tags>${tags}</tags>
                </configuration>
                <executions>
                    <execution>
                        <id>serenity-reports</id>
                        <phase>post-integration-test</phase>
                        <goals>
                            <goal>aggregate</goal>
                        </goals>
                    </execution>
                </executions>
            </plugin>
```

## Simplified WebDriver configuration and other Serenity extras
The sample projects both use some Serenity features which make configuring the tests easier. In particular, Serenity uses the `serenity.conf` file in the `src/test/resources` directory to configure test execution options.